Literature Review-Predicting Public Bicycle Rental Number using Multi-source Data

Lin et al.(2017) tried to figure out sharing bike amount's prediction based on the Bayesian classifier and APSO-BP neural network models. In this article, the researchers collected weather data and historic public bicycle sharing record to build the dataset. Then, the model categorize bicycle rental mode through Bayesian classifier and used the specific neural network fitted to the mode. The evaluation of this model was based on its accuracy and the result was that the model showed higher accuracy than other algorithms.

To find the valuable factors of bike rental prediction, the article discussed the influence of holiday, weather and temperature and decided to build the dataset with these significant factors. The article set “di” as 1, 2 and 3 representing weekday, the first half of holiday and the second half of holiday, “wi” as 1, 2 and 3 as different weather and “ti” as different ranges of temperature.

To classify different situation of bike rental, the authors used cluster analysis to analyze the modes of bike rental record in training dataset. Through K-means cluster analysis, the bike rental behaviors were divided into 4 modes. Then, the researchers built the classifier using training dataset through Bayes classification method.

Then, the article designed an APSO-BP neural network model to forecast the bike rental amount. APSO-BP used single hidden layer neural network model. APSO algorithm generated several particles which are feasible answers randomly at first. The algorithm used the squared error to evaluate fitness. The researchers trained separated ASPO-BP neural network for each mode.

The experiment of this research was based on the bike rental record and the weather data in Hangzhou from March 18 to June 15 in 2016. 5 minutes were chosen as the time range. The researchers categorize the training dataset into 4 modes through K-means cluster analysis and then trained ASPO-BP neural network for each mode. The result showed that the accuracy of the amount predicted by this method was influenced by the accuracy of classification and the accuracy of this method in predicting rental amount was higher than other common methods.

From this research, I learned that the factors should be transferred into reasonable values firstly and the method of transferring the data are diverse. Besides, the simple neural network models sometimes cannot solve the problem accurately. The combination of different algorithm are needed. Moreover, there are many optimized methods thus researchers should choose the most suitable optimized method to improve the accuracy. These tips can be useful for our project.

Reference:
Lin, F., Wang, S., Jiang, J., Fan, W., & Sun, Y. (2017, May). Predicting public bicycle rental number using multi-source data. In 2017 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN) (pp. 1502-1509). IEEE.
